[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, folks.
This is Ty Hungerford.
And today, we have
something super special.
We have an amazing,
beautiful man.
Bruce Lipton is
here with us today.
He wrote these two
wonderful books,
"The Biology of Belief"--
this is a bestseller--
and his latest book,
"The Honeymoon Effect."
Folks, if you read
these books, they
will empower every aspect of
your life on a cellular level
onto what you produce, money, to
love, and everything you have.
You really digest these
books and go through.
And he's got all these
different healing modalities.
Take it on board.
Work on your subconscious.
Get the negative energy
out of your body,
and these will actually
totally change your life.
Bruce, thank you so much
for coming on the show, man.
>> Oh, Ty, thank you so
much for this opportunity.
I so appreciate
everything you guys
are doing in changing
our world for the better.
So thank you.
>> No, thank you, sir.
Thank you.
So we've got a few questions
for you today, obviously, Bruce.
The first one, say if someone
hasn't read these books.
>> Yes.
>> And maybe they haven't
come to that point where they
realize they are a co-creator in
this magnificent life of ours.
Where is a nice place
for them to start,
like a good starting point?
>> Well, the first thing is
to really understand that
we've been programmed.
And most people have seen
the movie "The Matrix."
And you think, well, "The
Matrix" is a science fiction
movie, but it's
actually a documentary.
And the issue is that
our lives are really
coming from the program and
not from our deepest wishes
and desires.
So once we understand
the difference
between the programming
and our conscious mind,
which is really where
we live, then we
begin to take an opportunity
to let go of the program
and start to live from your
deepest wishes, desires,
and aspirations.
And you can change your
life instantaneously
through this process.
>> Wow.
>> This is it.
I was teaching in
a medical school.
And I was teaching the
concept about genes.
And everyone, of course,
has heard about genes.
And they believe that
genes control their lives.
So running in my family is
diabetes, Alzheimer's, cancer,
whatever it is.
And they say, oh, my goodness,
I'm a recipient of such genes,
and this is going to be my life.
And this is a belief
of victimization,
a victimization of heredity.
It's running in my heredity, and
I'm going to get these genes.
And I can't control it.
There's a new biology that
switches this whole thing
around, because it reveals that
genes don't control our lives.
It's our perceptions and our
response to the environment.
It's the environment
that influence the genes.
Well, the relevance
about that is
since we can change
our perceptions,
so we can change
our environment,
then we're not victims.
We're actually masters.
But we have to know that.
We have to really come
from an understanding
that we are creating our lives.
Because if your belief
is you're a victim,
its belief is
translated into biology.
You become a victim if
that's what you believe.
>> Yes, sir.
So you kind of prove
scientifically and biologically
that the proof of
that, that we, in fact,
are in control of our
genes, that our genes aren't
controlling our lives.
Can you give us a brief,
sort of bird's eye view
of how you prove that, Bruce?
>> Yeah.
It's a wonderful
simple experiment.
About 47 years ago, I
was cloning stem cells.
Now, back 47 years
ago, there was only
a handful of us
in the whole world
even knew what a stem cell is.
A stem cell is an embryonic
cell in your body.
And the reason why we have
all these embryonic cells
is because cells have
a life, and they die.
And if we can't
replace the cells,
then it won't be very long
before all our cells die,
and then we're gone.
So a stem cell is a
multi-potential embryonic cell.
Here's the work, simple.
I get one stem cell,
put in a dish by itself,
and it divides every 10 hours.
So first 1, and then 2, 4, 8,
16, and the cells keep going.
After a week, I've got 50,000
cells in the Petri dish.
But here's the most
important point.
They all came from one parent.
So there are 50,000
genetically identical cells.
OK, now here's the experiment.
I take that community,
and I break them up
into three different
Petri dishes.
And I change the environment
a little bit in each dish.
Now, cells are like fish.
They live in a fluid.
So I create like an
aquarium with all the things
they need to live in it.
That's called the environment.
And I change the composition
of the environment a little bit
in each dish.
OK, what happens is in dish
one, I get muscle cells.
In dish two, I end up with
a different environment--
get bone cells.
In dish three, yet a
different environment,
I end up with fat cells.
Well, the whole point was this.
What controls the
fate of the cells?
And you say, well, genetics.
I go no, no.
They're all
genetically the same.
>> Yes.
>> So the fate of the
cell wasn't determined
by the genetics.
It was determined by
the environment, OK?
And so the information
in the environment
is really what's involved
with selecting our genes.
So people will say, well,
OK, that's really nice.
You got cells in a plastic dish.
What the heck does that
have to do with me?
And I go, well,
here's the fun part.
You look in the mirror.
Ty, you look.
You see this handsome
guy looking back.
You say, that's Ty.
That's me.
And I'm a single human
being and a single organism.
I go, a slight misperception,
for this reason--
you're not a single entity.
You're made out of
50 trillion cells.
The cells are the living entity.
You, by actual biological
definition, you're a community.
So you're a community
of 50 trillion cells.
And so the fun part is you're
a skin-covered Petri dish
with 50 trillion cells inside.
And you have an environment,
a culture medium,
and it's called blood.
And the chemical
composition of the blood
determines the
fate of the cells.
That's what happened
in my plastic dish.
So to a cell, does
it make a difference
if it's in the plastic
dish or the skin dish?
No, it's still going to
read the environment.
So I say, ah, then the
blood is the culture medium,
and the composition of the
blood controls the genetics.
And then I go, yeah, now
here's the cool part.
I say, but as I showed
in the Petri dish,
if I change the composition
of the culture medium,
I changed the fate of the cells.
So I say, well, who
or what controls
the chemical
composition of my blood?
So we go up to the next level.
I say the brain is the chemist.
The brain is what releases
the chemistry in the blood.
And then you go one more step.
You say, but what
chemicals should the brain
release into the blood?
And I go, next
level up, the mind.
What do you perceive?
What do you see?
What are you looking for?
So I say, for a person,
I say, here we are.
I stand here.
I open up my eyes, and
I see someone I love.
Well, my mind perceives
love and translates that
through the brain
into chemistry,
such as dopamine, the pleasure
chemical, oxytocin, the bonding
chemical, vasopressin,
attractiveness, growth hormone,
which enhances the
growth of the cells.
So when a person sees love,
experiences love, the brain
releases a cocktail of
these wonderful chemicals.
And think about it.
When people are in
love, they glow.
>> Yes.
>> They're healthy.
They have so much energy.
I say, well, how?
Where'd they get that from?
The culture medium, OK?
If I say, look, same
person, opens her eyes,
instead of seeing
someone they love,
they see something
that scares them.
I say, do you release these
same chemicals in love?
And I go, no, no,
when I perceive
the world as threatening,
were I living in fear,
I release stress hormones.
And I release
hormones that control
my immune system,
inflammatory agents,
these things that get me
ready for fight or flight.
And I go, well, here's
the interesting part.
As I said, the fate of the
cells is based on the chemistry.
If I take the chemicals
released by the brain in love
and put into a plastic
dish with cells,
the cells grow beautifully.
And I say, OK, wait.
What about the
chemicals that come out
of our brain of someone in fear?
I take those chemicals.
Put that in the culture dish.
The cells stop growing.
>> Wow.
>> And they get into protection.
Protections close yourself down.
So the idea is this.
When you're in growth,
you're open to the world.
And you say, come
on, bring it on.
>> Yeah.
>> But when fear or
something comes in there,
you close it down.
And the chemistry of the fear
is what shuts down the cells.
Fear kills, basically,
is what it's all about.
So basically, it says this.
We always talk about mind body.
And those strict
fundamental scientists go,
oh, mind body, what's
that, blah, blah, blah.
And I go, it's not a mystery.
It's simple.
The mind is an
interpretation of the world.
It causes the brain
to release chemistry
that matches the interpretation
to coordinate 50 trillion cells
to live in that world.
It's your emotions.
It's your perceptions.
It's your beliefs.
These are the sources
of the chemicals that
end up controlling the genes.
And this is a new science
that's called epigenetics,
because epigenetics
is a revolution of all
of our understanding of science
for a very simple reason.
When I was a professor
in a medical school,
we were teaching the
concept of genetics.
And genetics, most everybody
knows, yes, we have genes,
and the genes control
our traits and that we
get the genes from our parents.
And so therefore, the traits
that are running in our family
are passed down to us.
And sometimes it's a good thing,
and sometimes it's a bad thing.
You've got diseases
in your family.
Last thing you want to know,
oh, geez, everybody in my family
got cancer.
It's like, am I
going to be next?
Well, I got the genes.
So that's our belief system
that we've been teaching,
that genes control us.
That makes us
victims, as I said,
because we didn't pick the
genes as far as we know.
We can't change the genes.
So whatever they
are, they make us.
And so people walk around going,
oh, my life is not so good.
I got these genes.
"Epi" means above.
So when I say
epigenetic control,
I'm literally saying
"control above the genes."
It's the environment
that controls it.
Well, that includes not
just the real environment
but our perception
of the environment.
Because you could live in the
healthiest of environments,
but if you perceive it to
be a threatening world,
then your cells
receive the perception.
They don't read
the direct world.
In genetic control,
you're a victim,
because the genes control you.
Epigenetics is as a revolution
because it says, look,
if the environment or my
perception controls genes,
I'm the one that can
change my perception.
change my environment.
So all of a sudden,
I'm not locked in.
I am free to change
the way I live
in the world, which in
turn comes back and changes
the genetic readout.
And this is really what's
so profoundly important.
For example, a lot of people
talk about the placebo effect.
>> Yes.
>> And they say, well,
what's the placebo effect?
Well, this pill is
going to cure you.
It's the greatest new
science in the world.
And I believe that.
And I take the pill,
and I get better.
And then they tell me it
was just a sugar pill.
So then the truth is,
well, what healed me?
Well, it wasn't the sugar pill.
It was the belief in the pill.
So everyone says, oh,
yeah, placebo effect,
that's how you have
this wonderful thought,
and you get better.
And I say, yeah, but
here's the problem.
We've only talked about
the placebo effect.
There's another thing
called the nocebo effect.
The nocebo effect is,
what is the consequence
of a negative thought?
And it turns out it's equally
powerful in controlling
your biology and your
genetics as a placebo,
a positive thought.
So we talk about, oh, yeah,
placebo, good thoughts
create good health
and good life.
And then I say, yeah, and a bad
thought, a negative thought,
a nocebo effect, can
actually kill you.
It can cause a disease.
If you believe
you're going to get
this cancer because
everyone says
you're going to get this cancer,
and then your perception is
sending cancer thoughts
into your body,
the chemistry that
comes from the thoughts
to the brain to the
body is a chemistry
that doesn't support
health but will actually
lead to your own death.
So all of a sudden,
it's the power
of your perceptions,
positive or negative,
that overrides your genetics.
Well, this is most amazing,
because all of a sudden,
you look around.
And you say, but look at all
those wonderful happy people.
They're not only just happy.
They're also healthy.
>> Yes.
>> And the fact is, yes, they're
sending in a chemistry that
the cells will
really thrive with.
>> Which is how we should be.
>> Well, that's our
intention, isn't it?
>> Yeah.
>> That's what we want.
But then we've been programmed
to believe other people's
stories about us.
And this is especially true in
the conventional medical world.
Think about it.
You're a child.
What do you know about health?
And the answer is this.
When you're not
well, the parents
say, look, you got
to go to the doctor.
Oh, Daddy is sick.
He has to go to the
doctor, et cetera.
Why is that relevant?
Because as a child,
we are learning.
What are we learning?
If I am sick, it's not me
that takes care of my health
I go to this person
called the doctor.
And all of a sudden,
what I've done
is I've given power
over my health
to the opinion of the doctor.
Well, if I buy the opinion
of the doctor's truth,
he's the one that knows.
And he says I'm going to die.
He's the one that says
I have this illness,
or I'm going to have
all these problems.
Then I take his
belief, not my belief.
That becomes my perception.
And I take his statement, turn
it into chemistry in my head,
and manifest what he said.
So I gave away my
power to what I
thought was the professional
who knows better.
>> Doctor's orders,
that kind of stuff.
>> Yeah.
And we're turning
to we're beginning
to find out a very
interesting thing is
that in the conventional
Western world right now,
the AMA gave us what they call
conservative data about what
is called iatrogenic illness,
which is illness related
to medical treatment.
Iatrogenic illness means as I
go to the doctor with problem A,
I get a treatment.
And then I get sick or die from
problem B, which is actually
the result of the treatment.
So it's the treatment
that caused the problem.
The American Medical
Association published a paper
that the data they
gave put them that they
were the third leading cause
of death in the United States.
There are other
people that say, wait,
the AMA's data is based on
conservative suggestions,
more or less, not the real data.
So they said, give
us the real data.
And when they actually went
down and actually selected
and collected all the data about
how medical involvement has
been deleterious, it turns
out that medicine has then
become the leading cause of
death in the United States
today.
Basically, what it
really comes down to
is an understanding
that they were still
locked under genetic control.
So they're treating you as an
automaton, a robot, your genes.
You're sick.
It's your genes at the
center of the problem.
>> Yeah.
>> And the new biology says,
no, you're the one that controls
your genes.
And so you can even
have a mutant gene,
but with a proper vision and
understanding of the world
or an openness to the
world, you can actually
cover up the deleterious
effects of a mutant gene.
So all of a sudden,
it's like, no,
we're not controlled
by the genes.
We're controlled by the way
we respond to the world.
>> Yes.
>> Some people say, it's
probably safer to walk across
the motorway with a blindfold
on than to go to the doctor.
>> Bruce, the subconscious
mind, we know it's been proven
in different areas.
It's a million times stronger
than our conscious thoughts
or our conscious mind.
It's running like
90%, 95%, if not more,
of our everyday activities.
A lot of these programs
in our subconscious mind
are from our childhood
that maybe not necessarily
serving our life well.
What can we do to reprogram
our subconscious mind?
Is there some tools or
some good quick places
where people can go?
>> Yeah.
One of the most
important things,
because the subconscious
mind really has
fundamental programs
of life that we acquire
from our parents, our
family, our community
between the last
trimester of pregnancy
and the first seven years.
So this is why nature
created the first seven
years of a child's
life to download
how to be a member of a family
and a society and a culture
by strictly observing
other people.
It's actually a brain function.
It's equivalent of hypnosis.
>> Yes.
>> OK, so the fundamental
programs in your subconscious
are not yours.
The conscious mind is yours.
That's the creative mind.
Well, the issue is
that the conscious mind
can travel in time.
What are you doing next week?
>> Yeah.
>> Your mind let's go of the
moment, goes to next week.
What'd you do last week?
It lets go of the moment,
and you move into last week.
Or I say, Ty, think of
something in your head.
And the moment you're thinking,
you're not paying attention.
Well, this is what the function
of the subconscious comes in.
When you're not paying
attention, you go to autopilot.
So it's not like you're
walking down the street,
and you have a thought
and stop like that.
No, you continue walking.
Yeah, but you're not
paying attention.
So it's a subconscious that
does all the jobs from walking
to driving the car.
And so why is this relevant?
Because when we're
not paying attention,
and we default in
the subconscious,
we play the programs that
are in the subconscious.
And I go, yeah, but the
programs in the subconscious
are primarily not yours.
They came from other people.
And most of them, as
psychologists tell us,
most of the programs we get are
disempowering, self-sabotaging,
and limiting.
>> Yes.
>> And the relevance
about that is this.
If I'm going to play those
programs, then by definition,
I'm going to be shooting
myself in the foot.
The reason why you play
the subconscious programs
is because the conscious mind
is engaged with thinking, which
is 95% of the time or more.
And that means 95% of your
behavior is invisible to you.
And why I really
want to emphasize
this so much is this--
because we believe were victims.
Oh, I really wanted
to be successful.
I wanted to be healthy.
I wanted to have a
great relationship,
and it's not working out.
>> Yeah.
>> And they say, well,
that was my intention,
and it's not working.
So therefore, the
world's against me.
And then we go into victims,
like god, I really wanted it,
and it didn't happen.
And I just want
people to wake up,
because it basically is this.
It's not the world
against you at all.
The world will give
you everything.
The issue is you're
not operating
from your conscious mind
except 5% at the most.
And so your life is really a
reflection of your subconscious
programming.
>> Yes.
>> Now you say to me, well, I
got programmed from the last
trimester of pregnancy
to first seven years,
so I was being programmed when
I was one and two and three.
And I go, absolutely.
And you say, but what
were the programs?
I wasn't there.
I have no idea what the
hell the programs are.
And I go, here's the neat part.
95% of your life is coming
from the subconscious.
So all you have to do
is look at your life.
And just look at it.
And you say, for what?
And I say, what comes
to you that you want,
and it comes to you easily.
You have programs to
allow that to happen.
But what you struggle with,
what you work hard on, what
you have to put a
lot of effort into,
why are you working so hard?
And the answer is simple.
Because you have an
invisible program
that is sabotaging
you from that point.
So now, all of a
sudden, you say, well,
what do I need to change?
I say, well, look at your life.
And tell me what you're
having trouble with.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Because that's the direct
expression of a program
that's not supporting you.
There's always been a
belief that the conscious
and the subconscious minds
are one and the same.
So if I educate
my conscious mind,
then my subconscious
mind should automatically
know what the heck
I just did, right?
So I say, well,
yeah, guess what?
How many self-help
books did you read?
And they go, oh, I read
all these self-help books.
I say, now that you read
them, did your life change?
And the answer is,
no, not really.
But I'm really
smart, because if you
ask me any questions
about the self-help book,
I can answer it.
I say, well, what's the issue?
And the issue is this.
The conscious mind is creative.
So yeah, I could read the book.
I could watch this
video with you in it.
I could even just go, a-ha,
and the conscious mind
could accept that and learn it.
But the subconscious mind
does not learn that way.
And that has been the problem.
Because we educate.
The conscious mind's
getting really smart.
And our life stays
exactly the same as it is.
And the issue is why?
Because it doesn't
translate from the conscious
to the subconscious,
because the subconscious
learns in, well, three
to four fundamental ways.
Number one, the first way
it learned seven years
was hypnosis,
because the brain was
operating in a low
vibrational frequency
and just downloading
what it saw.
After you're seven,
how do you learn?
Habituation.
How did you learn the
ABCs or the times table?
You had to repeat it and
repeat it and repeat it.
And finally, you got it.
And then you know how to do it.
You want to drive a car?
You have to practice
and practice,
and then you learn how to do it.
So if you want to change
the subconscious mind,
hypnosis is number one.
That works.
Number two, repetition,
habituation, create a habit.
And at first, it
seems like a struggle
because it's new to
the subconscious mind.
But hey, you didn't learn ABCD
the first time you said it.
>> That's right.
>> You had to do
it again and again.
But after you do it for
a repetition period,
it will be so natural that
if you're not doing it,
your subconscious mind will
go, hey, what's happening?
We're not doing it.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> So that's really good.
We overcome that.
A third way-- which
is some people get it,
and it's very powerful, but
I wouldn't recommend it--
is tremendous emotional shock.
Boom.
Something happens to your
life, and it's so dramatic
that after that
moment, you're not
going to be the same person.
The subconscious got
it right there, OK?
And the newer one
and the better one
is a whole new field of
belief change modalities,
which are also
associated with what's
called energy psychology.
>> Yes.
>> And these are wonderful,
because basically,
it's a form of super learning.
And what's neat about it,
the conventional things
like hypnosis or
habituation, there's
a time element that
takes a long time.
But these new beliefs
change modalities,
like a super
learning experience,
you can change a belief you've
had your whole life, 50 years,
and change it in 10 minutes.
And so this is really a new type
of psychology that's coming in.
But it's really necessary,
because as they say,
necessity is the
mother of invention.
>> Yeah.
>> We're running into a world
that has a lot of necessity
to change very, very quickly.
So we're really happy
to see that there
are ways of changing without
going through all that anxiety
and stress, and we can
do it really quickly.
My favorite one is the
one that I use because I'm
most familiar with it.
But there's many of them.
In my books, I
give a whole list.
But the one I use
is called Psych-K,
like the abbreviation
of psychology.
It actually represents
psychological kinesiology.
And it's an exercise
where you get
your right and your
left brain hemispheres
to work in harmony,
which they don't do
on a normal day-by-day basis.
And when you get them
to work in harmony,
that's called brain
synchronization.
A window opens up.
And you can drop in a new
belief in five minutes.
>> Wow.
>> And I'm a devotee of that,
because I wouldn't have written
my book.
I couldn't write my book.
I tried for 15 years
to write the book.
And every time I'd get
halfway through the book,
it would peter out.
And I didn't realize it because
my subconscious had a fear.
I'm-- at the time, was
a respected scientist.
And I said, if you
write this book,
and you bring in consciousness
and spirit into the book,
all your colleagues
are going to shun you.
So my subconscious
was doing me a favor.
It says, you don't
want to do this,
because this will
invalidate you.
It's like kill you.
So my subconscious programming,
working 95% of the day,
would sabotage the writing.
What I ended up doing was
changing the belief about that.
And then the book came out.
It was just like--
it just flowed right out.
>> Wow.
>> Within a few months, the
whole thing was really done.
It's really fun.
Because you say, well, what if
you can release these programs?
And that's the story of
"The Matrix," where I say,
well, I take the red pill.
I get out of the program.
And then I say, yeah, but in
real life, every time we've
taken that red
pill, I say, what's
the red pill in real life?
And the answer is
falling in love.
Falling in love
with either a person
or falling in love
with your creativity
or whatever it is, falling in
love, because when you fall
in love, what you're doing
is so captivating and so
engrossing and so desirable, you
don't let your conscious mind
wander.
So the first time in your
life, your conscious mind
is staying present.
And I say, well, why
is that important?
Conscious mind, wishes,
desires, and aspirations--
if you're operating
from that mind,
you manifest your
wishes and desires.
So my conclusion for
all of this blah,
blah, blah that I'm
giving you is simply this.
What if you go into
the subconscious mind
and change the programs
in the subconscious mind
so they reflect the wishes and
desires of your conscious mind?
What would that mean?
And I'll tell you what it means.
You'll live in a honeymoon
for every day of your life
on this planet for
a simple reason.
>> Yeah.
>> If my conscious mind with
wishes and desires begins
to wander, and I default
into the subconscious,
and it's playing my
wishes and desires,
I never left the honeymoon.
>> And following
on in the Psych-K,
you were saying something
about a gentleman who gets up
on stage and actually proves
it with watching the actual
frequencies change
in the mind, right?
>> Well, absolutely, because a
lot of people beforehand would
say, oh, that's
just a new age idea.
And how do you
know you've really
changed just because you
got finished with the belief
process?
And you say, oh, I
feel so much better.
Is that real?
Well, now Jeff Fannin, a
neuroscientist whose expertise
is called brain mapping, and he
puts wires all over your head
and can read three dimensionally
what's going on in the brain.
The moment the
brain has changed--
the program has changed--
you can see it on the screen.
So he generally puts a
person up on the stage
and puts the wires on and says,
OK, now we tested your belief.
And you don't have
a belief in this.
Now let's put in the new belief.
And it's interesting,
because the audience
can see the change before
the person actually
says, yes, now it's done.
It's maybe a few seconds,
but the audience can see it.
So why is this important?
Because this sounds
miraculous, yes.
You mean you can change your
beliefs in 5 or 10 minutes?
>> And see the
results in an instant.
>> But you can see it instantly.
And actually, you can
experience instantly
if it's a phobia,
for a simple reason.
Because a phobia is a certain
stimulus, like height,
or I'm afraid of spiders,
or I'm afraid of dogs.
And I say, OK, good, let's
go through the belief change.
You come out.
And I say, well, am
I afraid of spiders?
And I can show you instantly.
Here's a spider.
And all of a sudden, 10 minutes
before, it freaks you out.
Now it's like, oh,
all of a sudden,
your complete biology changed.
So you can see that.
>> Yes.
>> But a lot of people's beliefs
involve something dynamic.
They have to do
with relationship
to others and people or jobs.
So they actually have to go out.
And then they look
back and go, whoa,
this is so different
than it was before.
Most people's stresses are
not real immediate emergency
stresses at all.
They're beliefs of a fear that
they won't have something,
that they won't have a job.
They won't have food.
They won't have a friend.
And it's not that they
don't have them right now.
They're thinking about,
oh, if that happens,
and that's where the
stress comes from.
And that's why 90% of
the people are in fear,
because they recognize that
their future is uncertain.
But rather than seeing
it in a positive way,
they have this
image of a negative.
>> Trying to work
it all out and get--
>> And it's really interesting
because, remember when you fall
in love, and you get
out of the programming,
you create heaven on Earth.
Well, if it wasn't
for the programming,
everybody would have
heaven on Earth.
>> Yes.
>> So if we can change
the programming,
then heaven on Earth
is available to anyone.
If you take a tuning fork,
you have two tuning forks,
and they're tuned to
the same frequency.
You hit one tuning fork.
The other one vibrates as well,
because the vibration from one
is the same resonance
harmony of the other one.
And so that's called
the harmonic resonance
when two things vibrate at the
same vibration of frequency.
And so what's
interesting about that is
the brain takes in data,
but the other thing
that people don't
know is the brain
is broadcasting
that data back out.
So I say, oh, yeah, I can
put wires on your head
and read your brain activity.
And I go, yeah,
people, well, that's
just a connection to the skin.
There's a new way
of reading brains.
The one with wires is called
electroencephalograph, electric
reading of the brain.
The new one is called
magnetoencephalograph,
so it's reading the magnetic
fields generated by the brain.
But here's what's critical.
The probe isn't even
touching the head.
The probe is out here.
>> Yes.
>> What's the point?
The point is this.
Your brain is a tuning fork.
If I send out a bad
vibration, a bad vibe,
it's not going to resonate with
anything that's good out there.
If there's something
out there that
has the same vibration as
the bad vibe, which is really
the image of bad
vibe, it will cause
that to move, just like
two tuning forks, right?
>> Yes.
>> So interesting point,
what comes into my life comes
into my life not by accident
but through harmonic resonance.
What I'm sending out,
I will bring back in.
So if I'm afraid,
then guess what?
I find reasons to be afraid.
They find me,
actually, because I'm
broadcasting that frequency.
So then you say, well,
what's the resolution?
And the answer is,
you're the one that's
broadcasting the frequency.
Recognizing them in a moment
of fear and go, wait, stop.
I'm the one that can push
the stop button and say,
I'd rather think of
something different.
>> Yes.
>> And when you do, it's
the most fabulous thing
in the world, because now
you're the one that says,
I'm not a victim of these things
that I was attributing to other
people.
I'm the one that's creating it.
Well, if you're the
one that's creating it,
then you're the one that can
change the creation to anything
you really want.
Go out there and love
the world, and it
will feed you all this stuff.
>> Wow.
>> And that is the nature
of heaven is to, what,
go out and experience
this planet.
>> That's so cool, Bruce.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you, Ty.
>> You're such a
cool human being.
Aw, you have blessed work.
All right, folks,
we've run out of time.
Bruce Lipton has given us so
much beautiful information.
So much stuff has
passed through us.
We've got these two wonderful
books, "The Biology of Belief"
and "The Honeymoon Effect."
If you read these books and
make them become part of you,
do the work on your
subconscious mind.
Get the negative energy out
of you, out of your body.
And really, you got to
think about it all the time.
If you do that, and you
really commit to it, folks,
you can be, do, and
have anything you want.
You can be so much
more than you are,
and you can have love and that
honeymoon effect in your life
at all times.
Thank you so much.
I believe in you.
Bruce believes in you.
We love you.
[KISSES] Thanks for tuning in.
See you later, guys.
Bye-bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]